Add blog for AWS v6 (#3210)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/announcing-6-0-of-the-pulumi-aws-classic-provider/index.md

{{% /notes %}}

### SDK Size Optimization

The AWS Classic provider contains more than 1,200 resources with over 12,000 properties between them. As a result, it’s expected that the SDK size of the provider has grown to be fairly large. With that in mind, we invested in some key areas to reduce the size of generated files. Depending on the runtime, the SDK is now up to 90% smaller than it used to be in v5 of the provider!

![aws_sdk](aws_sdk.png)

One particular optimization is related to `wafv2` resources, that were particularly difficult to use in Pulumi AWS v5 (issue [one](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/2276), [two](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1117[), [three](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/2250)). The new release includes a refactored `wafv2` module which uses recursive types. Using recursive types allowed us to remove a lot of excess generated code.

Smaller SDK sizes mean faster downloads, snappier experience with editors and code completion tools, less time needed for `pulumi preview` and `pulumi up` operations, and smaller binaries, all of which contribute to a streamlined developer experience for Pulumi users.

> ### Terraform Plugin Framework Support

Reviewer: Maybe it’s sort of covered in the next bullet - but feels like we should highlight all of the new resources that we support which are using Plugin Framework?

Also - are there any user-facing benefits we can speak to for Pulumi users?  I know we’ve uplevelled our bridge support significantly here - but not sure there’s any specific benefit we can connect to this?

More and more Terraform resources are migrating to the [Terraform Plugin Framework](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/plugin/framework). We are excited to announce that 6.0 supports all resources implemented with both Plugin SDK and Plugin Framework technologies. This means that users get access to the entire API of the upstream provider.

> ### New Resources and Functions

Reviewer: Move this to the top?

The new major version of the AWS Classic provider brings 56 new resources and 23 new functions. Additions include resources for Audit Manager, Chime, Fin Space, Global Accelerator, Open Search, Quicksight, Resource Explorer, Route53, Transfer, and many other AWS services.

You can see a full list of new resources and functions in [Release Notes](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/releases/tag/v6.0.0).

### Upstream Breaking Changes

Pulumi AWS Classic 6.0 ships all improvements and bug fixes of upstream versions from 5.0.0 to 5.11.0. It also contains a number of upstream breaking changes. Please refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) to navigate the entire list.

### Fixes for Highly Upvoted Issues

> The new release ships a few Pulumi-specific fixes as well. A good example is a highly upvoted issue [unexpected behavior of defaultTags](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1655) that has been fixed and is available in the new release.

Reviewer: Should we list each of these inline here?  I thought there were a few others?

Author: As we've resolved 1423, I made an update to the text here.

### MaxItemsOne and Deprecations

The 6.0 release removed a few resources that have been deprecated for a long while. All of those resources were replaced with newer versions containing a more logical organization of modules and resource names. The old resources have been deprecated for years, so it's unlikely that you were still using them. But in case you do, we applied automatic aliases to make migration as straightforward as possible.

> We also shipped a few, small breaking changes to properties that may allow one or many items. We aligned those with the capabilities of the upstream provider to maximize the user value and developer experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also shipped a few, small breaking changes to properties that may allow one or many items. We aligned those with the capabilities of the upstream provider and the AWS services ensure Pulumi users can access the full capabilities of the platform.
```

---
title: "Announcing 6.0 of the Pulumi AWS Classic Provider"
date: 2023-08-29T09:00:00-04:00
draft: false
meta_desc: "Announcing 6.0 of the Pulumi AWS Classic Provider, including SDK size optimization, TF plugin framework support, new resources, and more."
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - mikhail-shilkov
    - monica-rodriguez
tags:
    - aws
    - providers

---

> We are excited to announce 6.0 of the [Pulumi AWS Classic provider](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/). The AWS Classic provider is the most heavily used provider across the entire Pulumi ecosystem, and offers access to the full surface area of the upstream Terraform AWS Provider from within Pulumi projects in all supported Pulumi languages. The [6.0 release](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/releases/tag/v6.0.2) brings a substantial set of fixes and improvements to the provider, including a number of breaking changes as part of the major version release.

Reviewer 2: I don't love the link to the GH release tag because it looks like nothing changed:

<img width="1273" alt="image" src="https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-hugo/assets/410614/e3624bd9-0ad1-49a0-90f6-ec48f42ef189">

I don't know what would look better.

> We are excited to announce 6.0 of the [Pulumi AWS Classic provider](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/aws/). The AWS Classic provider is the most heavily used provider across the entire Pulumi ecosystem, and offers access to the full surface area of the upstream Terraform AWS Provider from within Pulumi projects in all supported Pulumi languages. The [6.0 release](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/releases/tag/v6.0.2) brings a substantial set of fixes and improvements to the provider, including a number of breaking changes as part of the major version release.

Author: Thank you. I've pinged the team to see if we can add some more details here. cc @mikhailshilkov

This blog post walks you through the list of notable changes in the new major version.

<!--more-->

{{% notes type="info" %}}
Join Pulumi on Thursday, September 7, 2023 for a live workshop on [getting started with infrastructure as code on AWS](/resources/getting-started-with-iac-pulumi-aws/), which will feature the new AWS 6.0 provider.
{{% /notes %}}

### Terraform Plugin Framework Support

> More and more Terraform resources are migrating to the [Terraform Plugin Framework](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/plugin/framework). We are excited to announce that 6.0 supports all resources implemented with both Plugin SDK and Plugin Framework technologies. This means that users get access to the entire API of the upstream provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More and more Terraform resources are migrating to the [Terraform Plugin Framework](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/plugin/framework). We are excited to announce that 6.0 supports all resources implemented with both the new Terraform Plugin SDK and the legacy Terraform Plugin Framework technologies. This means that you get access to the entire API of the upstream provider.
```

### New Resources and Functions

![aws_api](aws_api.png)

> Since the previous major release of 5.0, we have shipped 57 additional minor and patch releases, enabling you to keep up with the latest and greatest enhancements. The new major version of the AWS Classic provider brings 56 new resources and 23 new functions. Additions include resources for Audit Manager, Chime, Fin Space, Global Accelerator, Open Search, Quicksight, Resource Explorer, Route53, Transfer, and many other AWS services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the previous major release of v5.0, we have shipped 57 additional minor and patch releases, enabling you to keep up with the latest and greatest enhancements. The new major version of the AWS Classic provider brings 56 new resources and 23 new functions. Additions include resources for Audit Manager, Chime, Fin Space, Global Accelerator, Open Search, Quicksight, Resource Explorer, Route53, Transfer, and many other AWS services.
```

Author: We're standardizing on 5.0, 6.0, etc.

![aws_sdk](aws_sdk.png)

One particular optimization is related to `wafv2` resources, that were particularly difficult to use in Pulumi AWS v5 (issue [one](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/2276), [two](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1117), [three](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/2250)). The new release includes a refactored `wafv2` module which uses recursive types. Using recursive types allowed us to remove a lot of excess generated code.

Smaller SDK sizes mean faster downloads, snappier experience with editors and code completion tools, less time needed for `pulumi preview` and `pulumi up` operations, and smaller binaries, all of which contribute to a streamlined developer experience for Pulumi users.

### Upstream Breaking Changes

Pulumi AWS Classic 6.0 ships all improvements and bug fixes of upstream versions from 5.0.0 to 5.11.0. It also contains a number of upstream breaking changes. Please refer to the [changelog](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) to navigate the entire list.

### Fixes for Highly Upvoted Issues

> The new release ships fixes for many [highly upvoted issues along with  Pulumi-specific enhancements](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues?q=label%3A6.0+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+-label%3Akind%2Ftask+-label%3Akind%2Fepic+is%3Aclosed). This includes resolving [constant diff from wafv2 with no changes](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1423) and [unexpected behavior of defaultTags](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1655) that have been fixed and are available in the new release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new release ships fixes for many [highly upvoted issues along with Pulumi-specific enhancements](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues?q=label%3A6.0+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc+-label%3Akind%2Ftask+-label%3Akind%2Fepic+is%3Aclosed). This includes resolving [constant diff from wafv2 with no changes](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1423) and [unexpected behavior of defaultTags](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-aws/issues/1655) that have been fixed and are available in the new release.
```

### MaxItemsOne and Deprecations

> The 6.0 release removed a few resources that have been deprecated for a long while. All of those resources were replaced with newer versions containing a more logical organization of modules and resource names. The old resources have been deprecated for years, so it's unlikely that you were still using them. But in case you do, we applied automatic aliases to make migration as straightforward as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The 6.0 release removes several deprecated resources. All of those resources were replaced with newer versions containing a more logical organization of modules and resource names. The removed resources have been deprecated for years, so it's unlikely that you were still using them. But in case you do, we applied automatic aliases to make migration as straightforward as possible.
```

> We also shipped a few, small breaking changes to properties that may allow one or many items. We aligned those with the capabilities of the upstream provider and the AWS services ensure Pulumi users can access the full capabilities of the platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also shipped a few, small breaking changes to properties that may allow one or many items. We aligned those with the capabilities of the upstream provider and the AWS services ensure Pulumi users can access the full capabilities of the AWS platform.
```
